So if you could just say your name for .
Okay.
Great.
And you were saying that this library was a model for... On Bibliotech Saint-Generes in Paris.
By La Broste.
Bibliotech Saint-Generes in Paris.
object return and this house here and the idea here in the building concept is the forged iron you know and that was used then in the tower and so on in all the railway station that age and in the orange leaves etc i mean and this house is the first in sweden to be built with the forged iron as a
By the way, I have already visited the new French library and the new British library and just two days ago the new German library.
It's a very good succession.
And then I also went to Leipzig to see what they're doing with the preservation, you see.
I haven't been to Leipzig after the port.
I've been there before.
At least 10 or 15 years ago I've been there.
Not after the port of India.
Do you think it was a good idea to, because this building was designed according to 19th century sensibilities and needs.
You mean this one here?
Yes.
Was it more difficult with your restoration to bring it into the 21st century?
Would it have been better to maybe just build a new building?
But as an author who died in practice, nothing exists only for building.
taken except the facade, the big reading room and the entrance hall.
Everything has been opened.
I mean, you can't see it from outside, but from the inside you can see it.
And this was inaugurated by the King of King on the 2nd of June this year.
It was inaugurated.
Let's say it was inaugurated in 2nd of June.
And the building has been totally transformed, but totally transformed.
And the big feature here is that we have placed the stacks under the earth level, deep under the earth level here.
The books that only were above us are now done, and above us are new of the premise, new of the premise.
So that people are sitting in daylight and books are sitting in the dark.
You can see my point.
It's quite opposite from what the French have done.
Exactly.
But exactly.
We have pointed out to them also, Mr. Belarad.
Mr. Belarad, who is the head of the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, General de France, he was here in our inauguration, I just made that point to him, that you are building thousands of books, and then you place the, uh, straw under, you know,
Either way around.
And of course, they make the towers of glass now.
And so now they have to protect the books with wood.
And the readers are down here and the books are up here.
And this wood that they bought would take in books with.
It's wood that, if I write in form, wood has been taken from the Amazonas.
I mean, you know, this type of wood that shouldn't be taken back home.
And all the, you have, you know how to enter the library and how exactly.
My bad back, I've been killing myself today.
And then you arrive on the roof of the terrace.
The terrace is...
is made of the same Amazonas wood again from the general.
The enormous, what is the name of that?
The plank, yeah.
Enormous, the word plank, gold, that would be so much here.
It's a level ground and it consists of this Amazonas wood.
See, they didn't tell me that when I was there.
and I think this building is
I've seen it very carefully.
I mean that when it was under construction, I've seen it when it's half-ready.
It's still only half-ready.
You know, they haven't opened the search levels, the only public library level in the upper portals.
First, I guess what they wanted to do was create a statement.
No, no, no.
A very expensive one.
Well, of course, statements are very interesting, but what does it do for books?
No.
And I don't want to be too critical of them because, you know, it's wonderful that they are interested in their books and in their library.
And the French have reason to be, of course, I mean, you know, French, French, what would they be then without that?
So in that sense, it's all right.
And it's also right in the sense that they have put the library in the Eastern period that needs something to be...
And it's supportive.
You have the new French opera, the Bastille opera, and you have the new
But I don't think it's such a good idea to be so close to the river.
No, of course not.
Now they can't go below.
They couldn't go below even if they wanted to.
Because they're right next to the river.
Paris is standing on sand.
You know that Montmartre is a heap of sand.
I didn't know that.
They had enormous difficulties when they constructed at least a suffrage.
Because they couldn't bring it to stand still.
is just a heap of sand in my mouth.
Tell me if I can just totally switch gears now.
Tell me about
What is the purpose of the national library in Sweden?
The purpose is in all other countries to preserve at least one copy of everything that has been printed in the country for generations to come.
To function as the memory of the nation.
We are the memory of the nation.
on the side of the National Archives as well.
I mean, the National Archives collect documents from the Swedish government, et cetera, from official documents from the Swedish government.
We collect the printed heritage of Swedes, printed in Sweden.
A print is, that's a critical word, it's a print.
Nowadays it is.
It wasn't 20 years ago.
Nowadays it becomes very critical with the virtual reality that we have around us and we have to cope with that as well.
But if you look back, historically you can see what I mean on that.
Everything print should be preserved in at least one optical future generation.
And going back as far as you can go?
Oh yes, until 1487 when the first
was printed in Sweden.
I mean, you know, Gutenberg was working in Mainz in Germany about 1450 and the Gutenberg Bible is from 1454 or something like that.
And the first book to be printed in Sweden was in 1480.
And what is the first book?
My name is Latin.
It is a paper, a Latin paper book about how the animals do and how the...
It's more for people.
I like these children's fairy tales.
How does the wood do and how does the... So it's okay.
And you have a copy of it?
Yes, of course.
and is that basically to you what the gutenberg bible is saying so yeah that's not that important but if you read that work in the library really know about it and if you if you're also going to 3d why would you then decide to to print just this work as the first work you know you should decide for something very important
The point is, they didn't realize they were doing anything historic.
and it's also interesting that it's been written when you look at most of the incunables they're really not very interesting books i mean they happen to be old but whether or not they're important literary objects a lot of the incunabular is trash when you think of it i don't mean to use that word and they try to make it
be similar to manuscripts.
I mean, the first thing can have a new plot.
That was exactly the point, which is why they had the space for decorations and the rubrications and the illuminated letters and the two colors, and Gutenberg, you know, gave up on the rubrications after the point.
How about, but I said when you stress print, but how about the collection of manuscripts?
We have also a collection of manuscripts relating to well-known Swedish men and women, of course.
especially related to Stockholms.
We have, for instance, the biggest collection of manuscripts over August, by August, Strindberg, in Batesville, and we have Stenman, if you know about her, as well.
And Selma from Strindberg?
Lagerlof, Lagerlof.
She is the guy, Kate over Strindberg, that is right.
Well, I know Strindberg.
I want to ask you a question about Strindberg, because I was just over at the Swedish Academy.
And you can't pass up the opportunity to ask, you know, about Strenberg not winning the Nobel or Tolstoy or Kazantzakis or Graham Greene.
They have been impressed with everyone.
They made some hits.
Thomas Mann, you see the Nobel Prize.
But if you look at the list,
It's frightening.
It's really frightening.
And I should say, I mean, is from a political point impossible.
It is impossible.
How should these 18, now there's 40 men and women be able to have the time and to judge about so many arguments in his work.
I mean, it's...
And because another thing I question them about is they read it in translation.
No?
No.
Yes and no.
It depends.
It depends what language they are in.
What if it's a lousy translation?
Shakespeare was lucky that he had a good Russian translator in Pasternak.
Pasternak was a bit different.
In my opinion, Pasternak was a bit different.
I like him.
And I think man was a hit.
Sartre, of course, although he denied to receive it.
Who else?
Sartre and Hitson?
Yeah, on the border.
Thomas Mann in any case.
And Rida, I should say, yes.
And Herman Hester, that was very good of them.
They decided to give the Nobel Prize to Herman Hester in 47 or 48, I know.
But they certainly missed on Borges.
He should have had it, of course.
I mean, all these Russians didn't get it at that time.
I tried to tell Nicholas here about the string, but that he got something like an alternative price from the stock of citizens.
Wasn't that the case?
I am not aware of that.
He died in 19...
But I didn't realize until this morning that he also was a librarian.
Yes, he was working in this library.
When the library moved from the Royal Palace, where you have been today in the morning, the Royal Library was housed in the Bernadotte Library, where you have been today, in these beautiful premises you have seen today, in the morning, didn't you?
We were housed until December 1877.
when they moved here in the autumn of 1877 they moved from the royal palace up here to the park and Strindberg was active in exactly when moving he spent a few years in the palace and a few years here so i think he worked about four years and two or two of them in the palace
And when the library moved, would you say it became a more professional organization?
Yes, yes, yes.
What was the distinction when it was part of the Royal Palace?
None.
I mean, of course, it was a very modern house when we had moved here, 120 years, you know, and that was a new start, and they kicked for an order, of course, to have a new, modern, clean house, where the new
They died from cold, etc.
They didn't have heating in the palace, and it was so cramped.
I mean, it must have been an enormous experience for those people who weren't alive at that time to go from your palace here, and then you're going to hit the bottom.
There are many memories I'm going to be having about it.
And what is the size of your collection, Steve?
Nowadays we have just under 3 million boxes.
So it's compact.
It's the second language.
The biggest would be Carolina or so on.
But we are the second biggest language.
Do you do anything with digitization?
Always, yes.
We have so many photos underway here.
The entire thing of posters that are very bad things and very important to save for future generations of consoles.
We have started with wind.
You know what I mean with posters?
Yes, I understand.
Are you scanning them?
We are scanning them.
But they don't?
Scan them.
Scan them, yes.
Okay.
And then you're keeping the originals, right?
They are still keeping them together, yes.
And we are microfilming this whole bunch of Swedish daily newspapers.
Microfilming.
And we are planning in the future to scan parts of it.
But we are microfilming because the paper quality of the ending
19th century is so bad that even if you don't touch them, they fall apart.
Now, in the language of Congress in Washington,
They also microfilm newspapers, and then when they do that, they discard the newspapers.
Do you do the same thing?
No, we can keep them in a store outside the city.
And so, what is the philosophy there to keep them?
I wouldn't say emotional, but
Even if you make a very elegant microfilm, it's not the same as the origin, if you see the origin.
And if we are able to keep the origins before the common iteration contract to it, I'm not sure if it would be possible.
So the whole concept of deaccessioning materials is not in the vocabulary.
No, you mean what they're doing like this?
No, we never tried that.
The mask, the acidification, and I'm not the expert to be asked about these questions, but we have decided not to act as they do.
We prefer them to make the documents virtualised instead of the act.
And I'm not absolutely convinced that the method I use in life system
the correct one.
Well, they use it inter-page, they do page splitting.
So they are altering the, they remind it in many cases.
So whether or not it's actually the story is what it was.
There's been a lot of learning on these experiments down there as far as I mean.
And I was viewing these just two days ago, so it's a scene.
Yeah, scene.
Yeah, yeah.
That's, this trip is all about this whole concept of book culture and attitudes on books.
But apparently, with
Describe, if you would, if you can, the attitude of the Swedish people towards their literature, their books.
Is this a formation of the book in your view?
No, no, no.
Not like the French novel.
I'm sorry to say.
No, quite right.
No, no, no.
In the tweets.
First of all, Sweden is a small country.
Sweden was not very long ago a poor country with a small bourgeoisie and a small clergy and a few million government.
And most of them were peasants and poor people.
I mean, it's just during the last hundred and twenty or thirty years that the social condition had changed
And basically, especially after the Second World War, the Soviet condition had changed to total.
So now we can move on with the British nation
And in a way, it was a rich nation even before, but it was just the clergy and the small bourgeoisie and the small duvillity that we had here and some officers of the army, et cetera.
I mean, they concentrated in the small cities that were in the cities of Stockholm.
And what I will say about that is that if you compare Sweden, let's say to Germany, that has almost two...
a development and a tradition that we are lacking in Swinghamid.
If you think of Sweden, a hundred years ago, there were two universities here, Uppsala and Lund.
And the main task of these universities, very long to do, to educate the clergy and learn from what they need.
And the research work in the modern sense of the world wasn't started in Sweden until, and very generalizing of it started until the end of the 19th century.
And imagine the immigration base to the states here.
Why did people emigrate from Sweden in the 1950s and 1970s?
Of course, they were so damn cool, they couldn't live half the more, they had to save their lives and secure their living and they wouldn't have left Sweden, just so on.
enormous bank of work and software that were combined with immigration.
Well, the city I live in near in Massachusetts, near Worcester, Massachusetts, has a huge Swedish population.
There are several Swedish churches and several territories.
Why did the Swedish leave that country?
But it was so cool and so interesting to live.
I mean, they had to do something and they did it.
And what I say with that, you're asking about the traditional education in this country, I would say then that the basis for educated people, freeing people, is in fact very small.
But how is it that the Nobel Prize, which comes from this country, is considered the great literary award in the world?
It's so much money, of course.
You get a lot of money.
How much is £6 million?
An enormous price.
I mean it's just the size of the heap of money.
It was the first such price.
Yes, yes, yes.
It started in 19... before the... about 1900, 1900.
It's much money.
If you give me £6 million without typing...
It's almost one million dollars.
It's a lot of money, isn't it?
But it's more than the money versus the prestige.
Of course.
But that's because it was the first at that level.
That's right.
And of course, it's worldwide.
It's not just the Pulitzer Prize in my country, which is just an American, you know, or the Booker, which is British speaking, and the Prix de Goncourt, which is French.
The Nobel is the whole world.
But of course,
It is kind of paradoxical when you say this is not necessarily a country of the book, and yet this country does give the world's greatest nothing to do.
But Nobel, which was the founder of this, he wasn't much in Sweden, because he was in Russia.
Yes, he was most of the time in St.
Petersburg and all around, and doing business from France.
But yesterday, the attention of the literary world was focused on Stockman.
This is an interesting explanation.
This happens long to year.
And is there always speculation around here?
Yeah.
So the people do talk about that.
They never get right.
I never experienced in my memory that you could find out who would get the prize.
No.
They always find somebody that you never thought of.
It's not quite true, but I mean it's very obvious.
But this year there has been some trouble with theatres in Sweden.
So now the prize goes to playwrights.
In Italy.
I've heard that idea, but I don't know.
But I've never heard of this guy no one before, I have to be honest with you.
In fact, I think he has been playing more extreme than in Italy, because in Italy he is not national.
He is not national, and Italy is not Italian.
Only Moby Academy is doing it.
Even the Pope has condemned this person.
I didn't do that.
Because he is blaspheming for their only child human people.
So I wonder what their attitude would be to his work.
I think I would take that for a compliment.
Apart from that, I think he is not an important author.
This is the main thing.
He is a good player.
Well, for instance, I chucked Tennessee Williams, of course, being an American to me, is one of the great playwrights of our time.
Or Olby is still alive.
I think he's been dead for quite some time.
But Olby is dead.
Tennessee Williams is dead.
But Olby is still alive, I think.
Or Olby is.
I interviewed him last year.
He's very, very much.
I just want to feel a surprise to you.
That would be something to give to Edvard Olby.
All Tennessee Williams, but he is dead.
I mean, Tennessee Williams would have been quite right.
And he has started a new tradition in theatres.
He's a poet, too, I mean.
He's beautiful to read.
He's a clown in Italy.
Or Arthur Miller, who is alive.
Oh, why not?
But of course, he... How was it?
Did Eugene O'Neill receive the prize or not?
He did.
That was right.
I think that was right.
Eugene O'Neill, I think, was the first American to win one.
I think.
I think Eugene O'Neill was the first one.
I think so.
Pearl Bach one, which was a total disaster.
She's even forgotten enough.
And Joe Crawl, of course.
What is his name on that?
He's very pro-strat.
Well, there's Hemingway.
No, not Hemingway.
John Steinbeck.
not in Saul Bellow.
Yes, the Himmelberg, but there was one in the... Isaac Singer, who is a Yiddish.
No, but earlier, earlier, there was one earlier.
I think Clare Lewis.
No, not even that.
He wrote, he writes without... William Parker.
Thank you.
That one I cannot read.
He's not my cup of tea.
He is regarded as probably the greatest American writer.
I know, but I can't read him.
Do you try to read him in English?
Yes, it's difficult.
I like him.
Do you like him?
I'm going to hear that.
He's probably written three great novels, which is a lot.
He's written one great novel.
Light in August has been translated into Swedish.
Light in August is wonderful.
By the way, Light in August has nothing to do with Light in August.
I will wait if your light is too heavy, isn't it?
Everybody thinks light has to do with a sun or something.
As far as I've been told, you can be light if you...
have only a kilogram weight.
Isn't that so easy?
And now it is always a means to be not heavy in horse, not bright in horse.
Tell us a little bit, are you a librarian by profession?
Yes, by training?
Yes, I've been here for 30 years.
And I don't want to take up too much of your time.
I'm very grateful that you agreed.
Is there any chance we could just say a little bit of what's been done here?
You will see the Reading Room.
Have you been to the Reading Room?
Yes.
Do you realise what I said?
Many buildings in Stockholm were constructed in that way at the end of the 19th century.
Take the Opera House here.
staircase of the opera house here.
It's exactly as the big opera, only 10 times smaller.
That's really true.
And there are other examples of how deeply French Paris architecture, India and Stockholm,
at the end of the 1960s.
The whole Wunwald system of Stockholm was copied, or not smacked Paris, I mean, you know, that Paris was totally transformed in the 1870s.
And then there was a very, a very big man for what are nowadays called Lindh Hagen who decided that
around the big streets to be with Paris.
If you could, I understand I'm asking you what the technical quote, right?
If you could give me your opinion of the significance of the library that I saw about this this morning.
Yes.
is from the aesthetic point of view fantastic.
I mean the room is wonderful.
Especially as one house, my own institution, I am a little proud of it today and I'm glad they keep it as they do.
But the books that are standing there
are all belongings of the royal Bernadotte family.
I mean, it's not that interesting, but it's very well done and beautiful to look at.
But all the queens and all the kings of the Bernadotte, starting with Marshall Bernadotte, in the beginning of the 19th century are there, and it's a beautiful room.
And if you're interested in the history of the royal family, this is the place you want to live.
In terms of trying to get a sense of the character of the books,
i think really what you see is what what is there more than the content of the books and visually it's a spectacular but if you go as if i remember rightly the the libraries of the of the
different queens and kings are kept together.
That's right.
If you look at the Queen Sophia, you'll find that she was interested in what is, what.
I mean, so there is a, to get an idea of the character of the, of the different royal persons.
Tell the story about the persons.
Apart from that, it was a very good series this summer.
Did you see that series?
that we presented this summer.
There was one program about every Bernadette Queen, and it was very well done, even if you have no interest in drawing family, what very few people have in this country, I would say.
It was so well done, and it gave so much of the atmosphere of the different periods when these poor ladies lived here.
I mean, they were brought from the door.
It was cold in Sweden.
They've been the first one, this year, who has become famous to her at a moment, written by a film, this lady called Cernico, and she never liked Sweden, and she longed to go back to France, and she did in fact... Never came back to France.
Yeah, but she came back, she came back, but she passed for some long years in France, and she wouldn't sit in those cold, in those cold houses.
Stockholm is built on granite.
So are we now under sea level, you say?
Is this new here?
Going down below sea level.
I love it.
At Cornell University.
Cordell just built a beautiful library, totally underground, six levels.
But it's not quite as big as it is.
It's not nearly as wide, I'm sure.
It's a very good idea of how these things come from.
This is the old building.
You entered on the other side here.
This is the north side here.
And we took the lift here and went down through this thing there, down in one of these two huge underground stacks that we are now in.
We are standing on the third floor in annex A, and this is annex B. And if you look here, you can see a tent.
This is a tenth.
A tenth?
A tenth.
Look here.
One, two, three, four, five levels in this one.
One, two, three, four, five levels in B. And what is the distance in that direction?
I can't tell you.
Well, I would say it's about... I'd say it's 100 yards.
I'd say it's the size of a football field, easily.
as an old football player, in either direction, I would say easily 200 yards.
And 200 yards, that's an estimate.
And that's one time.
And it's ten times that.
And we use today seven of these.
So you left three open.
Germans did the same thing.
So you are estimating you're able to go how far?
To what year?
2040?
2050.
But in reality, I think it will do forever, because with the virtual reality that is supposed to come here, we don't need that much space in future.
So you're quite...
sanguine about the fact that... But you are expecting that books will be replaced.
Not all of them.
Never a novel.
You must be able to lie in bed and read a novel or sit in a train and you can't expect yourself to bring in an apparatus to read a book in the bed.
But you expect that the number of publications are gone down.
Take the telephone catalog.
Perfect.
Absolutely.
Encyclopedias, which are constantly being updated.
The Oxford English Dictionary, the Encyclopedia Britannica are always being updated.
As I told you, Stockholm is standing on granite.
Even Royal Library is standing on granite.
That was the condition to be able to
We made this whole by dynamite.
Dynamite.
What is the process when you're pumped?
What's called in English?
Well, it's explosives.
And all the damage was taken away by noise that went up to the ground there and this way.
Blasted is what we saw.
Thank you.
And when the blasting was finished, these stacks were built in the room.
You see my phone?
So there is a room between the walls of the room and the houses standing down there.
This is really wonderful.
How far below sea level would you say we are?
Not many meters.
25 meters below.
Oh, there it is.
Twenty-five meters, that's— And the whole is 150 meters long, 150 meters long.
I guessed pretty good, didn't I?
150 in each—you mean 150 that way?
All together.
How does that translate into feet, do you know?
About three or four feet in one meter.
So I was right.
It's more than I said.
It's about—I said 80 feet.
Three times 80, that would be 200.
I said 300, so I guessed.
That was very close.
In each direction.
So it's 300 meters altogether, right?
No.
150 from that end to that end, or 150 from there to here?
From that end, yes, that's true.
Not 300.
150.
And 110,000 cubic meters?
That's the capacity?
450 yards.
This time here is how much granite that was lost or carried away from here, cubic meters.
And where do they take the granite?
It's a very interesting story.
They are building new railway lines around Stockholm now, especially to the airport.
The base is for the New Raven.
So it's being used.
And what's the 33,000?
What does that mean?
33,000 truckloads of granite were removed from the site, right?
How many a day?
Well, we could figure it out.
How long was the project in?
1992?
The blasting lasted two years, I think.
Two years of blasting, and so it was 1992 to 1997?
Only two years of blasting, from 1992 to 1994.
Then, after that, they built, the underground houses were built in the throne that they're going to drop, like great Gothic cathedrals.
That's absolutely amazing.
Yeah.
That's really spectacular.
And you used, you installed compact shelving, of course, which gives you... Not everywhere, because the books don't go away with compact shelving, and so all rare books are standing on non-compact.
All rare books are standing still, still, and not, I mean, going through and crawl like that, as they do with compact shelving.
Compact shelving has, has got, I think it's earlier, I'm not here last one.
Pros and cons.
Yeah.
I've got Nicholas.
Good.
That's good.
Have you seen this before?
No.
I knew about it.
What are you doing today?
I'm actually selling those to you sometimes.
Really?
And I'm doing the book, International Book Search Service.
So I have a lot of contacts with Indian Samsung.
Oh, cute.
What are you doing today?
Where is that?
Did you know about all that granite and everything?
I saw the trucks!
I must have seen an ending when it was going on.
Actually, I was trying to find the orchestra and suddenly it became interrupted by this rebuilding.
Did you see what you did?
The catalogue is on the internet.
It's the same here.
Everywhere.
Now this is called Lass.
But what do you call the room?
The reading room.
What is that word up there?
Reading rooms.
This is pure.
And they put out a lamp.
This is all a lamp.
These are the combined words.
Oh, it's beautiful.
If you have been in the reading room since you may have been
It's exactly the same order, that the radio essentially is double speed.
It's facing north, it was very open, and it's facing, you see, you know, very hot summer days, it's agreeable.
It's beautiful.
There's actually lighting now from before.
And how long is this room?
It's beautiful.
that you kept it.
The best of the old.
That was before the concrete was invented.
They used forge iron to the end of the 19th century.
Beautiful.
That's great.
There's rare books up there.
Do you charge your reading fees?
No.
Good figure out.
Germany now, too.
Just started with the new library.
In Leipzig.
In Frankfurt.
They had to pay in Frankfurt.
Just now, just started.
I was there two days ago.
They said very cheap, only 5 Dirichmarks a week.
Something like that, or 30 a year.
But the point is, they're charging and they shouldn't.
Absolutely.
Well, that's wonderful.
Thank you, and I will write you, and I will let you know how this works.
You're very kind.
Thank you again.